ok let's continue on what I might do is
delete these extra lines first that I added
....and what
we're going to do now as I mentioned at
the end of the previous video was going
to change the calls to center_text so that we
can allow the output to go to a file so to do
that it's actually quite simple we need
to put on line 14...and then if I just in
dent this code here the various ones we actually
had and what we need to do is add
an additional parameter and of course the paramter is gonna be the files so.....
......
.....
so now we've done the output should
actually go to a file.....
....so now we've done that we should fine that when we write this it will write it to
the current folders so we should see the file called centered appear here in the
project window so just run that
you can see that is centered file came up their and if we double-click
that and have a look at it you can see there's our
content correctly being sent to a file so that's obviously working nicely so
that's one approach to creating a
function that allows text to be printed
centered on the screen but like everything
else in programming there is always another way
now if we've written this function back in Python 3.2 there was no flush parameter to print
so we wouldn't have known to include a flush center_text now although the
function would still work it would no
longer provide the same functionalities
print from Python 3.3 and onward so what we can do
is we can take another approach instead
and that's to write center_text so that it just returns a required string
without making any attempt to actually
print it and that's also good opportunity
to explain about returning values from
functions so what we're going to do here is
changed the program first and then
described what the code is doing so we are gonna close this
down we don't need that anymore we got our file open again our functions.py file and we are going to change the
actual method this line here what we
need to do is instead of having a print here on
line 12 what we want to do was do change
that to make that a.....
....and we are going to get rid of this extra stuff at the end so we are only going to return the left margin plus
the text so I'm going to delete the rest and now if we change it to where
we had before here center_text we're
going to change this I'm going to comment out
the width which are not using anymore
put this back to indent so there is no indentation
we are gonna change the files or removed the file
we are not gonna output it anymore......
......
....so as you can
see the function hasn't really changed
much at all instead of passing a string
on to print we use a return key
word to indicated that the string should be
returned when the function is called
looking at line 18 the center_text function is called with a
string spam and eggs and it returned a string to be centered with a width of 80 characters so
the print function then prints out that
return value whatever value came back from the
center_text function so it's
normal to struggle this at first when
passing your own functions to other
functions but it's really no different
things we've actually done such as
and I'll give an example we've done this
before in the course we put.....
.....
....so you can see we have done
something similar there but again the
concept is we got a function center_text and by typing this
keyword it would return this statement what were doing is we are saying the
output that was going to be printed
we are returning that to wherever this
was calles so in this case the center_text
is how we called that particular
method and then whatever is returned is
in sort of soaked up by the print method
automatically and then its printed out to the
console I haven't actually run that's so we
should just run it to make sure that
still works you can see that it still
does work and what I didn't do was
actually delete these we should probably
delete those as well
so we don't need those anymore we got our list of arguments args and because this routine is now literally only
returning the text it would not be appropriate
to have those extra parameters and there shouldn't
be a comma here there should be a plus so if I do that
and now if we run it we should find the right out put as you can see so one thing
that can help and can be less confusing
if we assign the returned results to
variables instead of printing them
directly
so we are gonna make a change to the code
now just to show you an alternate way of
doing this so instead of having the one line we could put......
......
.....
....so lets run it first to confirm if it works for
us
same result as you can see but what we've
done is we've a assigned the value that has
been returned from our function
center_text and we have assigned that to
variable and we printed it out so you can
see the bottom line here is either by putting
the name of the function in the call to
print direct which I did previously or
by actually assigning the value that was
returned from a function into a variable
and printing the variable out using print we got the
same result so basically its a different
approach to centering text and you could see that that's working nicely so this
was a different approach to
centering text because here we just created
the string that should be printed but
we left it to the print function
to do the actual printing the only named
parameters of print that we bothered about is sep
anything else is not our concern so if
someone else wants to send the centered
text to a file they could do so in a way that
they normally would so we could do
something like this I'm just gonna get rid of these last 2 lines which we don't need
and leave that in their so we got a reference in the source code and paste the code
again so we could do something like.....
...so the actual calls to the
function is going to be the same but when we go to
print it will add this......
.....
....so its still
going to be outputted.....and for the next one we will do something similar.....
.....
.....so in
the case of the s1 s2 and s5
variables
we are calling the method and saving the
returned data that's come back from that
method into a variable and outputting that
variables on the next line but also I've got 2
examples one on line 34 and one on line 35 where we are recording the method direct without
assigning the return value to a variable
temporarily before printing it out in other words
we've use a mix of assigning the
return value to a variable and printing it out really just
to show that the output can be sent to
a file in either way either formats is acceptable and if we just run
that make sure it does work and you can see the file up here their so lets close down the run window and open menu and
you can see we still got the data their so that's it
that's the basics of creating your own
functions I'm gonna stop the video here
in the next video we will practice
creating a few more functions and then
we'll actually have a challenge to
hopefully help you understand the
concepts even better so see you in the next
video